1
It was dark by the time I reached Bonn, and I forced myself not to
succumb to the series of mechanical actions which had taken hold of
me in five years of traveling back and forth: down the station steps, up
the station steps, put down my suitcase, take my ticket out of my coat
pocket, pick up my suitcase, hand in my ticket, cross over to the
newsstand, buy the evening papers, go outside, and signal for a taxi.
Almost every day for five years I had left for somewhere and arrived
somwhere; in the morning I had gone up station steps and down again,
in the afternoon down the steps and up again, signaled for a taxi, felt in
my pockets for money to pay for my ticket, bought evening papers at
kiosks, and savored in a corner of my mind the studied casualness of
these mechanical actions. Ever since Marie left me to marry Züpfner,
that Catholic, these actions have become more mechanical than ever,
but without losing any of their casualness. There is a way of calculating
the distance from station to hotel, from hotel to station—by the taxi
meter. Two marks, three marks, four marks fifty from the station. Since
Marie has been gone I have sometimes slipped out of the rhythm and
confused the hotel with the station, I would start looking for my ticket
as I approached the hotel porter or ask the ticket collector at the
station for my room number, something—fate perhaps—must have made
me remember my profession and my situation. I am a clown, official 
description: comedian, no church affiliation, twenty-seven years old,
and one of my turns is called: Arrival and Departure, a long (almost too
long) pantomime during which the audience confuses arrival and
departure all the way through. Since I usually go over this number once
more in the train (it consists of over six hundred gestures, and I have
to know their sequence by heart, of course), it is not unnatural that
now and again I fall victim to my own imagination: rush into a hotel,
look round for the departure board, find it, run up or down a flight of
steps so as not to miss my train, while all I have to do is go to my
room and get ready for the performance. Luckily they know me in most
of the hotels. Over a period of five years a rhythm develops with fewer
possibilities of variation than one might suppose—besides, my agent,
who is familiar with my idiosyncrasies, sees to it that there is a
minimum of friction.